welcome to slash forward
in this episode we're going to examine
what is so far the most realistic
depiction of human monkey telepathy ever
captured on film with the 1988 thriller
monkey shines
if you've ever been disappointed when
your helper cappuccin refused to
slaughter your enemies for you subscribe
to the channel for additional tips
let's get to it we open on a fine
looking working class neighborhood allen
wakes up and forgoes the pleasures of
linda's flesh in favor of hitting an
early morning run
this for him involves loading up a
knapsack with bricks
before trotting off like an absolute mad
lad he proves to be both too fast
and too focused however as he darts away
from a dog and he and his collection of
bricks are sent flying through the air
we then see him on the operating table
oh my god martha his ass is even hairier
than yours
where this cocky doucher proves to be
incapable of properly repairing his
damaged cord so when we find him awake
again it's evident he's been lying to
rot for some time
despite this poor situation we learned
that dr john is held in high honor at
the homecoming for at least
saving alan's life after the
introductory accolades he doesn't
hesitate to check in on how linda's
doing like a true friend and ally
then it's time for alan's big arrival
where everyone cheers for him and then
he gets to observe as they stare
slack-jawed at his once-capable body now
confined forever to
the chair hey you throw a great party
guys we learn that linda's having a hard
time with this as she apologizes for not
visiting more often and she proves to be
entirely incapable of preparing a drink
for him so instead she calls his lab bro
jeffrey to see when he plans on arriving
turns out he's busy with his experiments
he injects himself
for fun and then gets to scraping some
brain material into his boiler
the results of which are then injected
into one of his capuchin test subjects
he then tests her smartness by having
her check the machine for messages
which prompts him to remember that he's
late for the homecoming he rolls up
after all the guests have left allowing
for some one-on-one time between the two
scholars they bust each other's chops
and catch up as alan confides that he
feels linda's drifting from him
due to the new difficulties of his daily
life mother then comes by to cheer up
her boy
regaling him with nostalgic stories from
his childhood you know
back when he could move his body with
her seemingly incapable of recognizing
his needs
he goes ahead and mouths his way out of
there we then see jeffrey in a late
night meeting with the head of his
department
burbidge who finds his research
laughable but with high reward potential
if he pulls off his ideas but still
there is a need to show results in order
to justify their continued activities
with his ass on the line jeff ups the
dosage and pushes his subjects to get
wise
quickly back at home allen attempts to
acclimate himself to the new amenities
of his smart home but finds even the
simplest activities to be significantly
aggravating when jeffrey arrives for a
quick visit we all discover that the
frustrations run a bit deeper than
expected
at the hospital the doctor points out to
mother that her presence is likely
exacerbating things
and also that her being there didn't
prevent the attempt on his life
so everyone would likely be better off
if she headed back home
some difficult but necessary truth bombs
then linda shows up and jeff is
surprised to discover that she had no
idea about allen's troubles
she's here to enjoy dr john's company
and for the promise of sushi you see
and jeff makes a diagnosis of his own
clinical [ __ ]
that hits pretty hard later we see jeff
vetting a helper monkey program
and jumps the line by offering tradesies
he'll supply a fresh smart capuchin and
all melanie has to do is spend all of
her time training it up in the ways of
monkey butlering
and soon they both arrive with one of
his curious young prior
test subjects after a brief introduction
they demonstrate how ella has been
trained to complete a variety of
caretaking tasks in exchange for treats
an arrangement that sours marianne but
they still form an instant bond that
brightens the general mood of the house
after a bit of fine-tuning on the
training ella is hopping around the
house and completing tasks based on a
simple laser
voice command system thus rendering mary
ann nearly obsolete
other than the need to occasionally
provide a refill on ella's treat
container a job she finds humiliating
which is exacerbated when ella outsmarts
her at every turn
later ella puts on some tunes and the
two new best friends share some face
hugs and allen is so encouraged by this
new turn of events we discover that he
decides to return to school
and with every passing moment he becomes
more smitten with ella's loyalty and
willingness to complete tasks for him
which is apparently his primary love
language
similarly melanie finds herself
succumbing to one of the primary
pitfalls of her chosen profession
falling in love with your service monkey
customers later on when allen goes
to show off some of their progress they
inadvertently discover a breakthrough he
asks ella to phone jeffrey for him but
she becomes confused because
jeffrey's right there this demonstrates
an above average capacity for problem
solving hungry for more data and
progress
jeff takes ella to grab a beer and uses
the alone time to jab her in the butt
with some more of his brain serum
she's not happy about the intrusion but
it's for her own good and she'll get
that someday
back at the lab we get some more setup
of the tension between jeff and burbidge
busy with his barbaric studies we learn
he has a hate boner for jeff who
reported ella dead in order to smuggle
her out
thinking there was actually a dead
monkey lying around berman sure would
have liked to have gotten a chance to
autopsy the corpse
in response jeff declares his intent to
change the locks on his lap so he can
continue his work and peace
back at the house tensions boil over as
allen gets pissed about marianne failing
to serve them properly
and by they he means himself and ella a
relationship that marianne finds creepy
finally hitting her breaking point she
unleashes her emotions and storms off
then her petulant bird arrives throwing
allen into a panic and nearly causing
him to topple off the bed we see his
panic internalized by ella and then he
insists that she get rid of the bird or
so help him
you what yeah fair enough but that night
ella takes her problem solving to yet
another level
freeing herself from her cage and taking
it upon herself to open another cage to
eliminate the nuisance we then get a
monkey's eye view of playtime in the
woods which appears to exist
inside of allen's sleeping mind the
dream is then interrupted by a real life
nightmare when mother arrives back at
the house
it's actually personal nightmares all
around as marianne then wakes up to find
mr peeps inside her slipper at the table
there's a dispute about the level of
allen's involvement in the defiling of
her precious bird
and really it seems like it may be a
good time to consider moving on to a new
job
[ __ ] deserve to die yeah probably we
then learn at bath time that mom is
actually here because marianne alerted
her last week to her intent to quit
but it's all good because she's selling
her business and all her belongings to
move in and care for alan full time
merry christmas then alan seems to move
his hand but he was the only one who saw
it tempering his excitement
and later that night he continues to
dream the dreams of monkeys
in the morning he attempts to confront
ella about her evening sojourns outside
the house
jeffrey finds some clear evidence of her
leavings in the attic but claims
everything to be
ship-shaped wanting to see how this
scenario plays out for his research
alan's sure that their minds are melded
in some way and that he's seeing through
her eyes but
jeff is incredulous later on allen goes
in for a second opinion about his
quadriplegia and the new doctor suggests
that his paralysis may be congenital and
just happened to have been initiated by
the truck accident this means that they
repaired the impact damage but there's
another correction to make that could
result in him regaining the ability to
move his body however the doc would want
to do some additional testing first and
see signs of an intentional movement by
allen allen and ella are livid about
this
and as melanie tries to help him work
through his anger we see that the
mindfulness may be a two-way street as
alan is now wallowing in his primal
primate instincts desiring to confront
dr john about his incompetence he's
given a forwarding number by the office
that he recognizes to be linda's number
he calls to confirm and now draws the
conclusion that jon may have been
somewhat distracted from his treatment
by his own base desires
but really they're just moisturizing
allen's rage spurts out of his lip
and ella drinks of the master then via
monkey dreams it's insinuated that she
goes to the cabin and sets the bed on
fire
significantly enhancing the levels of
their coil showmanship
but it was a bit too much and allen
awakes the next morning to news of their
death
information that he seemed to already be
privy to allen now fully recognizes the
impact ella's presence is having on him
and he wants her taken away but jeff
still needs data so he insists it
couldn't have been hurt and melanie
unwittingly helps him with this by
demonstrating the natural animal
instinct to abhor the naked flame
which coincidentally was my nickname in
high school jeff does eventually relent
to at least take her in for some testing
he discovers that ella is smart enough
now to know why she needs to serum and
actively requests injections
melanie convinces allen to stay in her
barn for a couple of days to clear his
head
and he almost immediately feels his
animalistic rage subsiding
but these sudden emotional shifts are
confusing to him and he ends up getting
fresh with her in response she
maybe reluctantly begins to undress but
slowly
and behind him which leaves him to sit
there feeling ashamed of what he did
but all is forgiven and soon enough
she's learning the pleasures of the lips
and the monkeys cannot believe it later
at the lab jeff returns to find signs of
espionage and discovers that almost all
of his serum is now gone
so he's got some big plans for that last
dose this [ __ ] can plug you into allen's
head
maybe it can plug me into yours i mean
why the hell not
i guess probably because of this but we
come to learn these are
actually signs of the serum working as
jeff kicks back and takes in the monkey
show ella returns to allen resulting in
an immediate mood change
recognizing this he warns mother that
ella is here to be careful but she
thinks he's full of crap in trying to
drive her off so she emotes all over him
and he finds himself unable to contain
his rage affusing all over her in return
and putting her in a dangerous spot
jeff comes too with the monkeys now
running the show and realizes the danger
so he grabs a couple doses of poison
runs off to try to end it back at the
house despite allen's warnings mother
decides to relax in a warm bath and
pretend like she never had a son
and she actually gets the equivalent of
this reality when ella tosses in a hair
dryer jeff arrives shortly after and
tries flipping the breaker giving mommy
another quick zap
he closes alan in to go check on her and
he finds the short this allows him to
get the lights back
on at this point he goes ahead and comes
clean with allen admitting that he
gifted him a drugged up experimental
monkey this causes him to become the
subject of allen's focused rage
bringing upon him one of man's greatest
horrors a monkey with a straight razor
after the scuffle she menaces allen and
then runs off jeff
wraps his wound and goes off in search
of her as soon as jeff gets upstairs she
hops out on the main level and begins
cutting the phone lines to try to
prevent outside communication
however allen is able to get the
receiver off the hook and notify melanie
of the trouble at home
as the scuffle continues allen discovers
that he doesn't have enough torque to
escape the phone cord
while he's stuck jeff lurks around
upstairs at which point ella hops out
with one of the doses of poison he
dropped and she sticks him in the back
jeff admits defeat to alan and we
discover that he's too loopy from the
poison to make any good decisions and he
ends up passing out on the floor
then ella works to cut off all means of
escape in order to ensure that he's
reliant on her now she even rejects his
offer of a prize
and shows him who's boss by kramen
treats he's in his face allen is
determined to figure out how to come out
on top here distracting ella with care
requests
as he tries to intentionally dive into
the mind meld but he's distracted from
this when melanie arrives and crashes
through the window he tries to warn her
away but she opts to monkey brawl
instead and despite her size advantage
she does take a wicked head injury that
puts her out
luckily she's wet enough that she can't
be set aflame despite ella's best
efforts
then just in case there was any question
at all about what's what ella pees on
allen's lap to demonstrate herself the
superior creature
after that she attempts to figure out
how to get the syringe into melanie's
face and just before she discovers the
softness of the eyeball alan wills his
hand to move and hits the music
coaxing ella in via gentle seduction
once there he goes
beast mode on her ravaging her something
fierce and ensuring she never invades
his brain again
and then after a brief
nightmare-inducing spinal surgery
alan's all good we find him leaving the
hospital on his feet with melanie now
comforted in the possibility of
demonstrating to her the pleasure of the
hips
i have a website set up where you can
support the channel through donations or
merch i'd like to take a moment to give
a huge thanks to my donors memorialized
in the hall of head shots
[Music]
monkey shines is a classic and monkey
themed horror although
i don't think the film itself fully
lives up to the iconic poster the plot
is a bit bloated and the film could have
benefited from being
pared down to provide more of a
showpiece for the climax of monkey on
human violence
if you enjoyed the video i'd love for
you to become a part of the channel by
subscribing thanks for watching